feat:Creation of new doc on security (#19778)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/security-in-gatsby.md

---
title: Security in Gatsby
overview: true
tags:
  - security
  - apis
  - jamstack
---

Among the many lauded benefits of using Gatsby (and other static app frameworks) is security. It is encouraging to see a framework not require developers to stress about security, but for those new to Gatsby or web development, this can contribute to a myth that there are no security issues.

There are indeed whole classes of security vulnerabilities that are eliminated by using Gatsby for web development; but there are still other vulnerabilities that are shared and some that are created. As a Gatsby developer, you need to make sure you are aware of these possible vulnerabilities and how to remedy them.

> This post will act as an introduction to get you familiar with these concepts in Gatsby.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post will act as an introduction to familiarize yourself with these concepts in Gatsby.
```

## Defining Terms

These are not to be considered universal definitions, just how the author will use them going forward.

- **site** - Any website, web-app, or other content you can browse on the internet in a web browser.

- **server-side site** - Any site that pre-processes code at time of request -- whether using node.js, PHP, Python, or any other method -- before delivering it to the user's browser.

> - **client-side site** - Any site (GatsbyJS, NuxtJS, NextJS, Single Page App, etc...) where static files(HTML/CSS/JS) are shipped to the browser for processing -- pre-processing may happen at build time, but does not happen time of request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **client-side site** - Any site (GatsbyJS, NuxtJS, NextJS, Single Page App, etc...) where static files(HTML/CSS/JS) are shipped to the browser for processing -- pre-processing may happen at build time, but does not happen at the time of request.
```
